.TH IREXEC "1" "Last change: Aug 2015" "irexec @version@" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.P
\fBirexe\fRc - run programs with one button press
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B irexec
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIconfig_file\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
This program lets you execute arbitrary commands on an IR signal decoded
by lircd, the LIRC daemon. You can give irexec a command line parameter
which has to be a name of a valid config file. If no command line
parameters are given irexec reads the default config file which is
usually ~/.config/lircrc.
.P
For version up to 0.9.1 irexec will wait until the executed program
terminates. So append a '&' to the command string if you don't want that.
.P
For version 0.9.2+ irexec does \fBnot\fR wait for the executed program to
terminate. In fact, the executed code is completely disconnected from irexec.
So, for 0.9.2+ the trailing & is not required, and there is no way to make
irexec wait for the executed code.
.P
The config string consists of the shell command to be run. Potential
uses are shutting down the computer, starting a dial-up connection etc.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
.B -h, --help
Display usage summary
.TP 4
.B -v, --version
Display version
.TP 4
.B  -d, --daemon
Make irexec fork to background. That way you can easily start irexec
from an init script. In this case you should specify a config file on the
command line as irexec won't be able to find your home directory.
.TP 4
\fB-D, --loglevel\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Determine the amount of logging information. [level] can be a symbolic
syslog level: 'error','warning, 'info', 'notice' or  'debug'. lirc
also defines three additional levels 'trace', 'trace1' and 'trace2' which
gives even more messages ('trace2' bringing the most). However, in the
log these messages are marked as 'debug'. By default, no logging is done.
.TP 4
\fB-n, --name\fR <\fIname\fR>
Use this program name instead of the default 'irexec' as identifier in
the lircd.conf file.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 4
LIRC_SOCKET_PATH
Path to the lircd socket irexec reads from, defaults to /var/run/lirc/lircd.


.SH FILES
.TP 4
.B ~/.cache/irexec.log
Debug log. Setting the XDG_CACHE_HOME environment variable relocates this
file to $XDG_CACHE_HOME/irexec.log


.SH NOTE
.P
If you start irexec, it reads your ~/.config/lircrc and reacts only on
prog= entries that point to irexec. If you have included more than one
program in your .lircrc, then start all these programs, they react
itself only to their according entries in .lircrc.
.P
irexec should run as a service. The contrib directory contains a .desktop
file which could be dropped in ~/.local/autostart. Doing so creates a
service which can be handled by regular desktop tools on all major
desktops. If you need to run run restricted commands such as powering
off the machine, you can use sudo to allow regular users to run specific
commands. See the Configuration Guide in the html documentation.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.P
The documentation for \fBlirc\fR is maintained as html pages. They are
located under html/ in the documentation directory.
