.TH IRSEND "1" "Last change: Sep 2015" "irsend @version@" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.P
\fBirsend\fR - basic LIRC program to send infra-red commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBirsend\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIDIRECTIVE REMOTE CODE \fR[\fICODE\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
Asks the \fBlircd\fR daemon to send one or more CIR
(Consumer Infra-Red) commands. This is intended for remote control
of electronic devices such as TV boxes, HiFi sets, etc.
.PP
\fIDIRECTIVE\fR can be:
.nf
\fBSEND_ONCE\fR         - send \fICODE\fR [\fICODE\fR ...] once
\fBSEND_START\fR        - start repeating \fICODE\fR
\fBSEND_STOP\fR         - stop repeating \fICODE\fR
\fBLIST\fR              - list configured remote items
\fBSET_TRANSMITTERS\fR  - set transmitters \fINUM\fR [\fINUM\fR ...]
\fBSIMULATE\fR          - simulate IR event
.fi

.PP
\fIREMOTE\fR is the name of a remote, as described in the \fBlircd\fR
configuration file.

.PP
\fICODE\fR is the name of a remote control key of \fIREMOTE\fR, as it
appears in the \fBlircd\fR configuration file.

.PP
\fINUM\fR is the transmitter number of the hardware device.

.PP
For the \fBLIST\fR \fIDIRECTIVE\fR, \fIREMOTE\fR and/or \fICODE\fR
can be empty:

.nf
\fBLIST\fR   ""    ""   - list all configured remote names
\fBLIST\fR \fIREMOTE\fR  ""   - list all codes of \fIREMOTE\fR
\fBLIST\fR \fIREMOTE\fR \fICODE\fR  - list only \fICODE\fR of \fIREMOTE\fR
.fi

.PP
The \fBSIMULATE\fR command only works if it has been explicitly
enabled in lircd using the --allow-simulate option.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage summary.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fB\-\-device\fR=\fIdevice\fR
Use given lircd socket [@varrundir@/lirc/lircd].
.TP
\fB\-a\fR \fB\-\-address\fR=\fIhost[\fR:port]
Connect to lircd at this address.
.TP
\-# \fB\-\-count\fR=\fIn\fR
Send command n times.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 4
LIRC_SOCKET_PATH
The lircd socket to connect to, defaults to a hardcoded default value
@varrundir@/lirc/lircd
.SH FILES
.TP
.I @etcdir@/lirc/lircd.conf
Default \fBlircd\fR configuration file.  It should contain all the
remotes, their infra-red codes and the corresponding timing and
waveform details.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.P
If \fBlircd\fR is not running (or @varrundir@/lirc/lircd lacks write
permissions) \fBirsend\fR aborts with the following diagnostics:
.nf
"irsend: could not connect to socket"
"irsend: Connection refused" (or "Permission denied").
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
irsend LIST DenonTuner ""
irsend SEND_ONCE  DenonTuner PROG\-SCAN
irsend SEND_ONCE  OnkyoAmpli VOL\-UP VOL\-UP VOL\-UP VOL\-UP
irsend SEND_START OnkyoAmpli VOL\-DOWN ; sleep 3
irsend SEND_STOP  OnkyoAmpli VOL\-DOWN
irsend SET_TRANSMITTERS 1
irsend SET_TRANSMITTERS 1 3 4
irsend SIMULATE "0000000000000476 00 OK TECHNISAT_ST3004S"
.fi
.SH "DRIVER LOADING"
Drivers are loaded dynamically. The directory used for this is determined by (falling
priority):
.IP \- 2
The 'plugindir' entry in  the [lircd] section of the lirc_options.conf file.
.IP \- 2
The environment variable LIRC_PLUGINDIR.
.IP \- 2
A hardcoded default (@libpath@/lirc/plugins).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lircd(8),
.br
mode2(1),
.br
xmode2(1),
.br
irrecord(1),
.br
irw(1)
