.TH LIRCRCD "8" "Last change: Nov 2014" "lircrcd @version@" "System Manager Manual"
.SH NAME
lircrcd - daemon to handle consistent .lircrc state among client applications
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lircrcd
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIconfig-file\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B lircrcd
reads the given .lircrc config file and synchronises the mode
that the LIRC clients such as (\fBirexec\fR(1), \fBirxevent\fR(1) ,
etc.) are in. Using
.B lircrcd
has to be explicitly
enabled in the lircrc config file by adding the following line at the
beginning of the file:
.IP
lircrc_class default
.P
This must be done at the top-level file, not an included one. The lircrc_class
string (here "default") could actually be anything; clients using the same
string in their lircrc will be synchronized.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fB\-\-help\fR
display help message
.TP
\fB\-v\fR \fB\-\-version\fR
display version
.TP
.BI \-p,\ \-\-permission= mode
The \-\-permission option gives the file permission of the Unix domain
socket lircrcd creates on startup in octal representation. Read the
documentation for chmod for further details. If no \-\-permission option
is given when the socket is created the default is to give only the
user owning the file read and write permissions (0600 in octal
representation).
.TP
.BI \-o,\ \-\-output= socket
With the \-\-output option you can select the Unix domain socket, which
lircrcd will create. The default is to create a socket in VARRUNDIR
(usually /var/run/lirc), see FILES.
.SH FILES
lircrcd creates its socket(s) in the VARRUNDIR directory, usually
/var/run/lirc.  The socket basename includes the user UID and the
string from the lircrc_class option.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The documentation for
.B lirc
is maintained as html pages. They are located under html/ in the
documentation directory.
