.TH LIRCMD "8" "Last change: Aug 2015" "lircmd @version@" "System Administration Utilities"
.SH NAME
.P
\fBlircmd\fR - Translate infrared signals into mouse events.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBlircmd\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIconfig-file\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This daemon can simulate a MouseSystems, IntelliMouse or IMPS/2 type mouse. It
gets the received buttons from lircd and converts them to mouse events. To
make this possible, lircmd needs a config file located
in /etc/lirc/lircmd.conf. In this file you have to determine which
button from which remote causes a mouse move or a mouse button click.
You can also specify a special button which activates or deactivates the mouse
mode.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help  message.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR \fB\-\-nodaemon\fR
Don't fork to background.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fB\-\-socket\fR <\fIsocket path\fR>
Use alternate lircd socket path.
.TP
\fB\-O\fR \fB\-\-options\-file\fR=\fIfile\fR
Alternative default options file, usually defaults to
/etc/lirc/lirc_options.conf.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR \fB\-\-uinput\fR
On Linux systems the \-\-uinput option will enable automatic generation
of Linux input events. lircmd will open /dev/input/uinput and inject
the simulated mouse events into the Linux kernel rather than creating
the /dev/lircm device.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR \fB\-\-loglevel\fR=[\fIlevel\fR]
Determine the amount of logging information. [level] can be a symbolic
syslog level: 'error','warning, 'info', 'notice' or  'debug'. lircd
also defines three additional levels 'trace', 'trace1' and 'trace2' which
gives even more messages ('trace2' bringing the most). However, in the
log these messages are marked as 'debug'.

.SH SOCKET PROTOCOL
The socket protocol contains undocumented parts. The data on the output
socket is
.TP 4
.B MouseSystems
5 byte packets:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
Byte 1: Button information.
.IP \(bu 4
Byte 2: X-axis change.
.IP \(bu 4
Byte 3: Y-axis change.
.IP \(bu 4
Byte 4 and 5: 0.
.RE
.TP
.B IMPS/2
4 byte packets. Please refer to the lircmd source code for details.
.TP 4
.B IntelliMouse
4 byte packets. Please refer to the lircmd source code for details.


.SH FILES
\fBlircmd\fR will use syslogd to output error messages. It depends on your
system configuration where they will show up.
.P
The options file is by default /etc/lirc/lirc_options.conf; lircmd handles
the values under the [lircmd] section in this file. The location can
be changed using the -O/--options-file command-line option or using the
environment variable LIRC_OPTIONS_PATH. The values here are used as
defaults for any option not present on command line.
.P

.SH DAEMONS
\fBlircmd\fR is a  daemon. You should start it in some init script
depending on your system. Besides the systemd setup which is
installed by default there are also example scripts for other distros
and init systems in the contrib directory. lircmd has to be started after
lircd as it connects to the socket lircd provides.

.P
If you start lircd or lircmd from your shell prompt you will usually get
back immediately to the prompt. This is not an error, daemons always run
in background.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.P
The documentation for \fBlirc\fR
is also maintained as html pages. They are located under html/ in the
documentation directory.
