.TH LIRCD-UINPUT "8" "Last change: Aug 2016" "lircd.uinput @VERSION" "System Managers Manual"

.\" Copyright (c) 2015, Alec Leamas
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END

.SH NAME
.P
lircd-uinput \- Forward lirc button presses as uinput events

.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
lircd-uinput [\fIoptions\fP]... [\fIlircd output socket\fP]
.br
lircd-uinput [\fIoptions\fP]... [\fIfile\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.BR lircd-uinput
reads decoded button press events from a
.BR lircd(8)
output socket and
injects these as key events to the kernel uinput device.
These events are made available to other applications on a
.I /dev/input/event
device, just as for any other input device.
.P
.BR lircd-uinput
is designed to run as a systemd service.
.P
The
.I lircd output socket
argument is an optional path to the lircd output socket.
It defaults to the \fIoutput\fP value in the [lircd] section of the
lirc_options config file, falling back to
.I @varrundir@/lirc/lircd.
.P
If a plain file is given instead of a socket it is supposed to contain data
formatted as the
.BR irw(1)
output.
.B lircd-uinput
will in this case send the codes in this file and exit.
.P
In order to work, release events must be sent to the uinput device.
This can be accomplished either by using the
.BR lircd
.I --release
option or by the
.BR lircd-uinput
.I --add-release-events
option.
.P
.BR lircd-uinput
can only handle button events named using the official namespace i. e.,
buttons known to the kernel. See NOTES.
.P
The
.I /dev/input/event
device created by the kernel can be tricky to locate, and is not stable.
See NOTES.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-u\fR \fB\-\-uinput\fR <\fIdevice\fR>
uinput kernel device, defaults to /dev/uinput.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR \fB\-\-release-suffix\fR <\fIsuffix\fR>
.BR lircd-uinput
generates different events depending on if the button name
ends with the \fIrelease-suffix\fR or not.
The setting should usually match the
.BR lircd(8)
.I --release
option.
Defaults to the lircd setting, falling back to
.I _UP
.TP
\fB\-a\fR \fB\-\-add-release-events\fR
Generate synthetic release events.
This option is mandatory unless
.BR lircd
is using the
.I--release
option.
The timeout used can be modified using the
.I release-timeout
key in the
.I lircd-uinput
section of the
.BR lirc_options.conf
file.
Useless if used with a text file as input.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fB\-\-disabled\fR <\fIdisabled buttons file path\fR>
The path of a file which contains name of buttons to be disabled,
one per line.
By default,
.BR lircd-uinput
sends all buttons found in input.
See NOTES.
.TP
\fB\-O\fR \fB\-\-options-file\fR <\fIpath\fR>
Options file holding default values. Defaults to
.I @etcdir@/lircd/lirc_options.conf
.TP
\fB-L, --logfile\fR <\fIlogfile path\fR>
Select the log file, either the string 'syslog' indicating that syslog(1)
should be used or a log file path.
The default is to use syslog.
.TP
\fB-D, --loglevel\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Determine the amount of logging information.
.I level
can be a symbolic syslog level: 'error','warning, 'info', 'notice' or
\'debug'.
.BR lircd-uinput
also defines three additional levels 'trace', 'trace1' and 'trace2' which
gives even more messages ('trace2' bringing the most).
However, in the log these messages are marked as 'debug'.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage summary.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version info.

.SH NOTES

.BR lircd-uinput
can only forward lircd button events with names from
the legal namespace defined by the kernel.
A complete list of possible button names  is available in
.I /usr/include/linux/input-event-codes.h
and also using
.I irrecord -l
Other button names are silently dropped.
.P
The event keycode depends on the name that was given a button in the
lircd config file e.g., if the button is named \fIKEY_1\fR the keycode
\fI1\fR will be generated.
.P
The kernel makes the events generated by
.BR lircd-uinput
available on a
.I /dev/input
device like
.I /dev/input/event12.
This device name is not stable and typically varies after a reboot.
The lirc distribution contains a udev rule which if installed creates
a device link named
.I /dev/lircd-uinput
which always can be used.
.P
.BR lircd-uinput
is designed to replace the currently deprecated
.I --uinput
option to
.BR lircd(8).
However,
.B lircd-uinput
forwards all events unless blocked by the
.I --disabled
option.
On the other hand,
.BR lircd
.I --uinput
does not forward all events - the heuristics used has been changed
over versions.
.P
Also, \fBlircd\fR implements (emulates) hardware autorepeat in the events
sent to uinput. \fBlircd-uinput\fR only sends keypress and release events,
trusting the kernel autorepeat support.

.SH BUGS

Since the device name is fixed, only one instance of
.BR lircd-uinput
can run on a system.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.br
.BR lircd (8)
.br
.BR irrecord(1)
.br
.BR http://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/input/event-codes.txt
