.TH LIRCRCD "1" "Last change: August 2014" "lircrcd @version@" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lircrcd - daemon to handle consistent .lircrc state among client applications
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lircrcd
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIconfig-file\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B lircrcd
reads the given .lircrc config file and synchronises the mode
that the LIRC clients using this config file (\fBirexec\fR(1),
\fBirxevent\fR(1) , etc.) are in. Using
.B lircrcd
has to be explicitly
enabled in the config file by adding the following line at the
beginning of the file:
.br
#! lircrcd
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fB\-\-help\fR
display help message
.TP
\fB\-v\fR \fB\-\-version\fR
display version
.TP
.BI \-p,\ \-\-permission= mode
The \-\-permission option gives the file permission of the Unix domain
socket lircrcd creates on startup in octal representation. Read the
documentation for chmod for further details. If no \-\-permission option
is given when the socket is created the default is to give only the
user owning the file read and write permissions (0600 in octal
representation).
.TP
.BI \-o,\ \-\-output= socket
With the \-\-output option you can select the Unix domain socket, which
lircrcd will create. The default is to append a "d" character to the
config filename given.
.SH "DRIVER LOADING"
Drivers are loaded dynamically. The directory used for this is determined by (falling
priority):
.IP \- 2
The --plugindir option if available.
.IP \- 2
The 'plugindir' entry in  the [lircd] section of the lirc_options.conf file.
.IP \- 2
The environment variable LIRC_PLUGINDIR.
.IP \- 2
A hardcoded default (usually /usr/lib[64]/lirc/plugins).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The documentation for
.B lirc
is maintained as html pages. They are located under html/ in the
documentation directory.
